---
title: 'Getting Stuff Going'
pubDate: 2026-1-23
updatedDate: 2026-1-23
sortDate: 20260123
description: 'A vaguely coherent rant about the creation of this site'
---
# idk what i'm doing
### fair warning, this is somewhere between a rant and a story. hang on to your seats and your censor bars.
Somehow, I managed to turn a glorified blog/portfolio thing into a week long project (probably more, since it's not even done yet). I've had to dig through so much documentation for [tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) and [astro](https://docs.astro.build/) to try and figure some of this stuff out, but because I decided to try learning something new, I've dove down a completely foreign rabbit hole. For whatever reason, I wanted to avoid client-side javascript, so I decided against Sveltekit, and eventually realized I didn't need Svelte either. So, rather than doing research, I decided to give whatever a shot. Lo and behold, the catppuccin site uses astro, and I decided I would as well. 5 days later and I'm questioning everything. Tailwind, on the other hand, was something I'd heard about from some friends (yes, my friends are as big of nerds as I am, shut up), so I looked into it. Css simplification via what is, for lack of a better term, a fuckton of highly-specific css classes. How it's supposed to lower client file size, I dunno, but thankfully for me, I don't care all that much. It means I don't have to jump around between the style tags and the stuff I'm writing.
"Markdown files are a slight step above txt files, and easier to use than html, so why not use them." -Astro devs, apparently. I'm not complaining, because I agree for the most part. I decided on writing my blogs in markdown (like this one), and the markdown processing means I can pull my readmes from github and apply the formatting to them. I figured out how to do that earlier, and it seemed to be working fine... except for the formatting. Supposedly, Astro applies some html formatting to the md rendering, which is great. Or it would be if it worked. After digging into the css in firefox, I noticed something reminescent of a Management type of fix: all the header tags were essentially nullified by a "base" css layer. Odd, I don't remember doing that, or anywhere in the code that did... Some digging later, and I found out our wonderful Tailwind decided that making things uniform was more important than them making sense, and was our culprit with it's "preflight" css import. Easy enough to disable, but still an annoyance. Still got more testing to do to figure out if I need it at all, or if I should only remove it where necessary. Oh well, we'll see.